# PRICE PREDICTION API

### Description

This project involves the deployment of a machine learning model as an API. The goal is to create an API that can handle the machine learning model developed for the real estate company "ImmoEliza." The API will allow web developers to create a website around the model, enabling users to make predictions on property prices.

### Installation

To run the API locally, follow these steps:

Clone the repository: git clone <https://github.com/SaidKardic/challenge-api-deployment.git>
Navigate to the project folder: cd challenge-api-deployment
Install the required dependencies: pip install -r requirements.txt
Run the application: python app.py

### Usage

### Routes and Methods

The API provides the following routes:

GET / - Check if the server is alive.
GET /predict - Get information about the expected format for the POST request.
POST /predict - Make a prediction for a house price.

### Input Format

The API expects the input data for making predictions to be in the following JSON format:

json

`{
  "data": {
    "area": int
    "property_type": Literal["APARTMENT", "HOUSE"]
    "rooms_number": int
    "zip_code": int = Field(ge=1000, le=9999)
    "land_area": int 
    "garden": Optional[bool]
    "garden_area": Optional[int]
    "equipped_kitchen": Optional[bool]
    s"wimming_pool": Optional[bool]
    "furnished": Optional[bool]
    "open_fire": Optional[bool]
    "terrace": Optional[bool]
    "terrace_area": Optional[int]
    f"acades_number": Optional[int]
    "building_state": Literal["NEW", "GOOD", "TO RENOVATE", "JUST RENOVATED", "TO REBUILD"]
  }
}`
### The required fields are:

area
property_type
rooms_number
zip_code
land_area
building_state

All other fields are optional.

### Output Format
The output of the API will be in the following JSON format:

json
`
{
  "prediction": Optional[float]
}`

The prediction field will contain the predicted price for the input house data. If the prediction is not available or there is an error, the prediction field will be null.

The API will be accessible at http://localhost.

### Documentation

The API documentation is automatically generated by FastAPI and can be accessed by visiting the root URL of the deployed API. It provides detailed information about the available routes, their methods, and the expected input/output formats.

### Contributors

Said Kardic (https://github.com/SaidKardic)

### Timeline

This project is done within 4 days while working at BeCode Brussels as a Junior Data Scientist.